README.md, before:

# WSDL TSClient

![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient)
[![npm-version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient)](https://npmjs.com/package/@reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient)

**Example how to generate and use wsdl-tsclient:** [wsdl-tsclient-example](https://github.com/dderevjanik/wsdl-tsclient-example)

Generate a [soap client](https://www.npmjs.com/package/soap) with
typescript definitions from a WSDL file.

This library uses [ts-morph](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ts-morph)
to generate typescript code and
[soap](https://github.com/vpulim/node-soap) for runtime. Inspired by
Java
[wsimport](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/tools/unix/wsimport.html)
and
[openapi-generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator).

*NOTE:* Add [soap](https://www.npmjs.com/package/soap) to your npm
runtime dependencies (`npm install soap`).

## Install

```sh
npm install @reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient --save-dev
```

or install it with `-g` to have CLI globally available.

```sh
npm install -g @reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient
```

or you can use `npx` to run it without installing

```sh
npx @reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient ./path/to/wsdl.wsdl -o ./generated/
```

## Usage

You can check example repository [wsdl-tsclient-example](https://github.com/dderevjanik/wsdl-tsclient-example)

### Generate client using CLI

Easiest way to generate client from is to use CLI. You need to provide
only path to `.wsdl` file and path to output directory (`-o`
param). If you want to generate **only typescript types** (no runtime
code) for node-soap, you can pass `--emitDefinitionsOnly` param.

`wsdl-tsclient ./soap.wsdl -o ./generated`

`wsdl-tsclient ./resources/**/*.wsdl -o ./generated` - using glob

you can also use `npx`

`npx @reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient ./soap.wsdl -o ./generated`

```bash
wsdl-tsclient [options] [path]

Options:
      --help                        Show help                          [boolean]
  -v, --version                     Show version number                [boolean]
  -o                                Output directory for generated TypeScript
                                    client                   [string] [required]
      --emitDefinitionsOnly         Generate definitions only (interfaces and
                                    types)                             [boolean]
      --modelNamePreffix            Prefix for generated interface names[string]
      --modelNameSuffix             Suffix for generated interface names[string]
      --modelPropertyNaming         Property naming convention ('camelCase' or
                                    'PascalCase')                       [string]
      --caseInsensitiveNames        Parse WSDL definitions case-insensitively
                                                                       [boolean]
      --useWsdlTypeNames            Use wsdl schema type names instead of
                                    parameter names for generated interface
                                    names                              [boolean]
      --maxRecursiveDefinitionName  Maximum count of definitions with the same
                                    name but increased suffix. Will throw an
                                    error if exceeded.                  [number]
      --esm                         Generate imports with .js suffix   [boolean]
      --quiet                       Suppress all logs                  [boolean]
      --verbose                     Print verbose logs                 [boolean]
      --no-color                    Logs without colors                [boolean]

Examples:
    wsdl-tsclient file.wsdl -o ./generated/
    wsdl-tsclient ./res/**/*.wsdl -o ./generated/
```

### Generate client programmatically

```typescript
import { generateClient } from "@reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient";

parseAndGenerate("./path/to/MyWsdl.wsdl", "./generated/");
```

### Using generated client in your project

*Note:* Make sure you have [soap](https://www.npmjs.com/package/soap)
package in your runtime dependencies (`npm install soap`)

```typescript
import { createClientAsync } from "./generated/MyWsdl";

const client = await createClientAsync("./path/to/wsdl.wsdl");
client.CallSoapMethodAsync();
```

Setting basic auth

```typescript
import { BasicAuthSecurity } from "soap";
import { createClientAsync } from "./generated/MyWsdl";

const client = await createClientAsync("./path/to/wsdl.wsdl");

const basicAuth = new BasicAuthSecurity(auth.username, auth.password);
client.setSecurity(basicAuth);

client.CallSoapMethodAsync();
```

for more information about the use of the client, read more about [soap](https://github.com/vpulim/node-soap)

## How it works

![overview](./docs/Overview.png)

## Develpoment

- Clone the repository
- Install dependencies `npm install`
- Run tests `npm test`

## License

The source code is licensed under the [MIT](./LICENSE) license

## Contributors

![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=reload/wsdl-tsclient)

Commit message:

Add note on why we forked

README.md, after:

# WSDL TSClient

> [!NOTE]
>
> This project is a fork of
> [sanderhurlen/wsdl-tsclient](https://github.com/sanderhurlen/wsdl-tsclient)
> which in turn is a fork of
> [dderevjanik/wsdl-tsclient](https://github.com/dderevjanik/wsdl-tsclient).
>
> The original project appears unmaintained. @sanderhurlen's fork has
> a fix for
> [#96](https://github.com/dderevjanik/wsdl-tsclient/issues/96) which
> we needed. But the fork isn't updated otherwise.
>
> We forked it to update dependencies and have added @dependabot to
> keep them up to date going forward.

![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient)
[![npm-version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient)](https://npmjs.com/package/@reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient)

**Example how to generate and use wsdl-tsclient:** [wsdl-tsclient-example](https://github.com/dderevjanik/wsdl-tsclient-example)

Generate a [soap client](https://www.npmjs.com/package/soap) with
typescript definitions from a WSDL file.

This library uses [ts-morph](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ts-morph)
to generate typescript code and
[soap](https://github.com/vpulim/node-soap) for runtime. Inspired by
Java
[wsimport](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/tools/unix/wsimport.html)
and
[openapi-generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator).

*NOTE:* Add [soap](https://www.npmjs.com/package/soap) to your npm
runtime dependencies (`npm install soap`).

## Install

```sh
npm install @reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient --save-dev
```

or install it with `-g` to have CLI globally available.

```sh
npm install -g @reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient
```

or you can use `npx` to run it without installing

```sh
npx @reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient ./path/to/wsdl.wsdl -o ./generated/
```

## Usage

You can check example repository [wsdl-tsclient-example](https://github.com/dderevjanik/wsdl-tsclient-example)

### Generate client using CLI

Easiest way to generate client from is to use CLI. You need to provide
only path to `.wsdl` file and path to output directory (`-o`
param). If you want to generate **only typescript types** (no runtime
code) for node-soap, you can pass `--emitDefinitionsOnly` param.

`wsdl-tsclient ./soap.wsdl -o ./generated`

`wsdl-tsclient ./resources/**/*.wsdl -o ./generated` - using glob

you can also use `npx`

`npx @reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient ./soap.wsdl -o ./generated`

```bash
wsdl-tsclient [options] [path]

Options:
      --help                        Show help                          [boolean]
  -v, --version                     Show version number                [boolean]
  -o                                Output directory for generated TypeScript
                                    client                   [string] [required]
      --emitDefinitionsOnly         Generate definitions only (interfaces and
                                    types)                             [boolean]
      --modelNamePreffix            Prefix for generated interface names[string]
      --modelNameSuffix             Suffix for generated interface names[string]
      --modelPropertyNaming         Property naming convention ('camelCase' or
                                    'PascalCase')                       [string]
      --caseInsensitiveNames        Parse WSDL definitions case-insensitively
                                                                       [boolean]
      --useWsdlTypeNames            Use wsdl schema type names instead of
                                    parameter names for generated interface
                                    names                              [boolean]
      --maxRecursiveDefinitionName  Maximum count of definitions with the same
                                    name but increased suffix. Will throw an
                                    error if exceeded.                  [number]
      --esm                         Generate imports with .js suffix   [boolean]
      --quiet                       Suppress all logs                  [boolean]
      --verbose                     Print verbose logs                 [boolean]
      --no-color                    Logs without colors                [boolean]

Examples:
    wsdl-tsclient file.wsdl -o ./generated/
    wsdl-tsclient ./res/**/*.wsdl -o ./generated/
```

### Generate client programmatically

```typescript
import { generateClient } from "@reloaddk/wsdl-tsclient";

parseAndGenerate("./path/to/MyWsdl.wsdl", "./generated/");
```

### Using generated client in your project

*Note:* Make sure you have [soap](https://www.npmjs.com/package/soap)
package in your runtime dependencies (`npm install soap`)

```typescript
import { createClientAsync } from "./generated/MyWsdl";

const client = await createClientAsync("./path/to/wsdl.wsdl");
client.CallSoapMethodAsync();
```

Setting basic auth

```typescript
import { BasicAuthSecurity } from "soap";
import { createClientAsync } from "./generated/MyWsdl";

const client = await createClientAsync("./path/to/wsdl.wsdl");

const basicAuth = new BasicAuthSecurity(auth.username, auth.password);
client.setSecurity(basicAuth);

client.CallSoapMethodAsync();
```

for more information about the use of the client, read more about [soap](https://github.com/vpulim/node-soap)

## How it works

![overview](./docs/Overview.png)

## Develpoment

- Clone the repository
- Install dependencies `npm install`
- Run tests `npm test`

## License

The source code is licensed under the [MIT](./LICENSE) license

## Contributors

![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=reload/wsdl-tsclient)
